Ex1: 
This program demonstrates process creation using the fork() system call. The fork() function creates a new process by duplicating the calling process. 
It returns:
0 to the child process
a positive value (child's PID) to the parent process 
-1 if fork fails
Both processes are executed independently after the fork. The child gets a copy of the parent's address space.


Ex2: Starting Processes in the Background
This exercise explains how to start process in the background using the & operator in a Unix/Linux shell.
The command "sleep 300 &" starts the sleep process, which waits for 300 seconds, and then  returns control to the shell right awat so other commands can be run.
jobs command: allows you to list all currently running background jobs. This is useful for multitasking on the terminal or managing multiple processes without waiting for each to finish.


Ex3: Stopping Processes
This exercise shows how to stop a running process using standard system monitoring and management commands.

ps aux | grep sleep: 
grep sleep: gets all processes with name sleep
the | operator does the piping meaning it takes the output of grep sleep and applies the ps aux on it
ps aux: lists all processes with their details , including their process ID (PID).

the kill <PID> command is used to terminate the process with the identified PID.

running ps aux | grep sleep again checks to ensure the process is no longer running. This sequence is essential for managing processes that may hang or run longer than needed​.


Ex4: Pausing and Resuming a Process
Here is temporarily halting and then resumeing a running process.
kill -STOP <PID>: sends the STOP signal to a process, pausing its execution without terminating it.

kill -CONT <PID>: sends the CONT (continue) signal, resuming the process from where it was paused.

This functionality is valuable for troubleshooting, resource management, or temporarily freeing up system resources without losing process state.


Ex5.1:
This file contains the implementation of the hello() function. It demonstrates modular programming where function definitions can be separated across files.

 
Ex5.2: 
This file contains the main function that calls hello(). The function declaration void hello(); tells the compiler that the function exists elsewhere, allowing compilation to proceed before linking.


Ex6:
This basic program demonstrates library dependencies. When executed, it requires the C standard library to be dynamically loaded into memory at runtime.

#include: directive in C is a preprocessor command that tells the compiler to incorporate the contents of another file into your program before actual compilation begins.

personal study to comprehend the exercises more:
<stdio.h>: is the standard input/output header file in C.

pid_t: It is a data type (often an integer) used to store process IDs (PIDs) that uniquely identify each process running in an operating system.

CC: is a Makefile variable that typically represents the name of the C compiler to use for building your programs.

gcc: stands for GNU Compiler Collection; it is the standard compiler for C and other languages on Linux systems.

CFLAGS: is a Makefile variable used to specify command-line options passed to the C compiler.

-Wall: is a common gcc option included in CFLAGS to enable all major warnings about code quality and potential issues. It helps you catch errors.

-g: is a compiler option that instructs gcc to include debugging information in the compiled executable. This makes it easier to use debugging tools.

$(CC) is a Makefile macro that allows you to change the compiler for your whole project by altering one variable.

$(CFLAGS): is a macro expanding to the flags/options you have set for compilation (like -Wall -g).lets you easily manage compilation options across all parts of your project.
